Update documentation regarding RMC and structure version encoding (#10)
PretendoNetwork/nintendo-wiki: docs/rmc.md

title: RMC Protocol
---

# Overview

> [PRUDP](/docs/prudp) packets may have optional payloads. These payloads may be anything, however typically `DATA` packets use RMC. RMC is a standardized protocol for calling methods on remote services. RMC has been known to come in at least 3 different variations. The variation used is already know to both the server and client. These variations are:

Reviewer: The full name for RMC (Remote Method Call) has been removed?

Author: My understanding is that "Remote Method Call" is not an official name, just one we've been assuming to be true based on how it's used and what the acronym is

I also felt like it was still clear enough based on how the paragraph is worded:

> ***c***alling ***m***ethods on ***r***emote services

Reviewer: Well, it's also documented like that on the Ghost Recon Online server [docs](https://github.com/zeroKilo/GROBackendWV/wiki/RMC), although tbf that could be inherited from Kinnay's wiki

title: RMC Protocol
---

# Overview

> 

Author: The extra spaces are done out of habit as some MD parsers expect the space to be there, resulting in bad rendering if it's not

> 

Author: For example, this is how it renders without the spaces in the requst/response sections
![Screenshot from 2023-11-28 16-26-34](https://github.com/PretendoNetwork/nintendo-wiki/assets/27011796/acd72354-a374-4977-8e8e-e4d72a631867)

> 

Reviewer: That is right, but it only happens when the line below the title is a table, which is why I didn't mention it on those

> 

Author: I know, I was just clarifying as to why I added them

> 

Reviewer: it's mostly for consistency with other sections of the docs, since we are doing the same on those

we can consider changing this, but since there are lots of files that would be worth of a separate PR

[PRUDP](/docs/prudp) packets may have optional payloads. These payloads may be anything, however typically `DATA` packets use RMC. RMC is a standardized protocol for calling methods on remote services. RMC has been known to come in at least 3 different variations. The variation used is already know to both the server and client. These variations are:

- "Packed" - Information about the service and method is tightly packed, such as using integers for protocol/method IDs
- "Packed" extended - The exact same as the previous "packed" variation, except an additional uint16 is added as the "true" protocol ID. In this case the uint8 "protocol ID" is `0x7F`
- "Verbose" - Rather than tightly packing data, this variation opts to encode information about the remote service and method in a more verbose way, using strings in place of integer IDs. This variation also changes how [Structures](/docs/nex/types#structure) are encoded

> All NEX titles use one of the "packed" variations. Many Rendez-Vous titles also seem to use the "packed" variations. However some Rendez-Vous titles, such as Watch Dogs for the Wii U, use the "verbose" variation

Reviewer: I'm not sure we want to mention specific games on the RMC docs, but I understand why it's done

```suggestion
All NEX titles use one of the "packed" variations. Many Rendez-Vous titles also seem to use the "packed" variations. However, some Rendez-Vous titles use the "verbose" variation
```

| [ClassVersionContainer](#classversioncontainer) | Information about the [Structures](/docs/nex/types#structure) used in the request |
| ...                                             | Method parameters                                                                 |

## Response Format

| Type                             | Description                |
|----------------------------------|----------------------------|
| Uint32                           | Size, excluding this field |
| [String](/docs/nex/types#string) | Protocol name              |
| Bool                             | "Is request" (false)       |
| Bool                             | "Is success"               |

**On success:**

| Type                             | Description                                     |
|----------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------|
| Uint32                           | Call id                                         |
| [String](/docs/nex/types#string) | Method name, with the protocol name as a prefix |
| ...                              | Response data                                   |

> In all known cases, the method name string in responses ends with a `*`. Looking at the response handlers for Watch Dogs on the Wii U, this seems to be related to a "return value pointer", though it is not entirely clear at this time

Reviewer: Following the other comment

```suggestion
In all known cases, the method name string in responses ends with a `*`. Looking at the response handlers for some games, this seems to be related to a "return value pointer", though it is not entirely clear at this time
```

**On error:**

| Type   | Description                                                                                               |
|--------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Uint32 | Error code, see [errors.py](https://github.com/Kinnay/NintendoClients/blob/master/nintendo/nex/errors.py) |
| Uint32 | Call id                                                                                                   |

## ClassVersionContainer

> 

Reviewer: This space seems unnecesary to me

> The `ClassVersionContainer` is a [List](/docs/nex/types#list) of `ClassVersion` types. Unlike in the "packed" variations, where structure version information is optionally stored as a header on the structure, a `ClassVersion` defines this version only once before the rest of the message is parsed. Presumably this is done to not re-encode the same version information multiple times, though the cases where this is beneficial are few. Every *request* in the "verbose" variation begins with a `ClassVersionContainer`, even if it has 0 elements. Responses do not use a `ClassVersionContainer`, nor do they encode the structure header

Reviewer: IMO we should make `ClassVersion` references as links

```suggestion
The `ClassVersionContainer` is a [List](/docs/nex/types#list) of [ClassVersion](#classversion) types. Unlike in the "packed" variations, where structure version information is optionally stored as a header on the structure, a [ClassVersion](#classversion) defines this version only once before the rest of the message is parsed. Presumably this is done to not re-encode the same version information multiple times, though the cases where this is beneficial are few. Every *request* in the "verbose" variation begins with a `ClassVersionContainer`, even if it has 0 elements. Responses do not use a `ClassVersionContainer`, nor do they encode the structure header
```
